So as I mentioned at the end of the previous video there are a couple of slight issues relating to the
keyboard with our logon app and they're worth knowing how to work with.
So first off you can see as we're entering the username pressing the enter key essentially moves us
to the password field which is great.
That's what we want.
But then pressing it again doesn't actually do anything it doesn't attempt the sign up process.
So we're going to make it so pressing that key initiate the sign up or the log in process.
And secondly we're going to enable the user to shut down the keyboard just by tapping elsewhere on the
screen.
And that should just make it up a little bit more friendly to use particularly with people with small
screen sizes.
So let's do the first thing first we need a on key listener in our app to listen for the press of the
key.
And we're going to do that in the on create method and to do that will need to be able to access the
password added text.
So rather than create it twice
just in fact get rid of it from the sign up method.
Find it up there and then set it up in the create method.
And then it will be accessible anywhere.
And now we want to take password edit text and set on key listener using this as our context i.e. the
main activity.
Now you can say we've got an error there because we need the on key listener implemented in main activity.
So let's do that and that will create the on key method for us as well.
So it's just another way of doing what we did with on click before so you can see that the main activity
now implements on the listener as well.
So this method will be called every time a key is pressed in the password.
Edit text.
And we want to check for that key being the enter key and we can do that using the integer i which will
represent the code of the key that was pressed and we want to see if that's equal to a
key event dot.
CONAN You can see we've got key codes for all the different keys then and we are interested in the enter
key so search.
Essentially we're testing there to see if the enter key has been pressed and if it has then we're going
to implement the Sign-Up method.
Now sign up requires a view which is normally the button but it can be any view.
So I'm just going to use the password there because it's not used anywhere.
Well it doesn't matter which few we use.
All right.
So let's give that a try.
It should not be the case that when we press enter in the password field it will attempt the sign up
or log in process.
So let's you enter and enter and you can see it's gone through the process already
That's try logging in or signing up with a new username and password pressing the enter key that should
have been successful.
Now interestingly we've got an account already exists for that username which it didn't set the sign
up with actually successful.
But what's going on there is it's actually submitting the form twice because this own key method is
called not only when a key is pressed but when it's lifted up as well.
So this is essentially being called twice.
So to get around that to stop that happening twice We're going to check to see if the key event was
a pressed down.
We can do that using get action.
And we want to see if that's equal See care and Dot action down.
So that's an extra little bit that we need to check for to make sure not only that the ticket is being
pressed but it's actually being pressed down rather than released.
So let's not give that a try and to answer and that definitely seemed to just happen once.
Let's try and sign up with an eye and an eye so you can see that was successful.
But it didn't bring up the message.
And if we do that again it will say counter-weight exists for this username.
So if it's only happening once as we would like.
Great.
So that's the first challenge.
Now I want to make it so that wherever we click on the screen apart from him one of the text fields
the keyboard is shut down and we can do that using our own cluelessness.
So we'll need to add a couple of ideas or at least just check for IDs.
So we'll need first of an I.D. for the relative lay out because that represents the backgrounds if they
click over there for example they will need to have the relative lay out to have a name like Lessner.
So I'll call this background relative lay out and we also need to get the logo and have a way to refer
to that so cool that logo.
Image for you that we can.
So next we need to add on listeners just like we did over here to the logo in the background.
So let's start with the relative lay out
which we add in the same way we do any other user interface element.
So we want a relative layout going to find it by its ID card or ID.
Background relative layout.
And similarly the image vi
like image view.
This is going to be an image vi from find view of pie ID order of ID start logo image view and then
we just set the own recklessness for both of values background relative lay out doors set on click listener
managed by this and logo image we set on kids Lisner managed by this as well.
Great.
So now those two user interface elements are going to call the on unclick method as well.
Now it's up to you whether you want for example the button and the change sign up mode text view to
hide the keyboard.
But I'm going say not include those more just include the background and the logo.
So let's check for both of those.
So we're checking for a view to get ID to our ID background relative layout or if you don't get ID is
equal to ID dot logo image view.
So those are the case we want to hide the keyboard which is a slightly fiddly thing today but it's only
a couple of lines.
So we create a new in put method manager which allows us to manage the method of input I'll call it
input method manager.
And this is going to be cast as an input method manager and we're going to get it from the system service
input method.
Service.
So that just gets the keyboard for us and then we use input method manager Hyde soft input from window
and you can see we need a window token and some flags for settings and we want to use the current window.
So we use get current focus get window token to represent the current window and we don't need any special
settings so we just put a zero there.
And I think I've got to write it up as well.
OK.
So essentially those two lines together shut down the keyboard.
If it's up and this will now mean that if we tap on the background or on that logo at the top that it
will close down the keyboard for us.
So let's take a look.
OK let's give this a try.
Type in the box brings up the keyboard tapping elsewhere gets rid of it and that will work wherever
we are in terms of added texts.
So feel free to use this one as your starting point for your log in projects.
We've now got more advanced keyboard control which just makes the app usage a little bit smoother especially
for those on smaller screens.
OK so now we're going to go back to the main flow of our Instagram app and we're going to start building
the third screen that the user will see after they've logged in.
And that is the user least.